Hello welcome back to the course on Parvi I hope you had a chance to play around with the time series
data and really practice the two different approaches.
And today we're going to talk about aggregation and real art.
It's going to be quite important to Tauriel because this is something that governs everything that happens
in power be-I and you're going to be using this knowledge further down through all the sections of this
course.
And more importantly in your career as use power be-I.
All right.
So what are we talking about.
Well first of all I'm going to ask a question which might seem very rhetorical at the start but we're
going to actually take some time to really think about it and see what's going on.
So the question is how does power be I in this exhilaration that we've created how does Parvi I know
that we want to aggregate our data at the monthly level.
Right so it might be an obvious question you'll say.
Well that's the way we've created the position we've put in the month here.
We've put the period here then we drilled into the month we've got unemployed here.
But let's really think about this for a second.
If you look at the data here you'll see that we've got apart from the period and unemployed we've actually
got other quarters we've got men and women so we've got the gender column we've got age which has multiple
different age groups.
And how does power be I know that we want to completely disregard these columns or not disregard them
but we don't want to aggregate at their level so we want to for instance for let's say here we've got
a peek at 2010 April rites of 2010 and April we want to add up the unemployment for men and women and
also across all age groups.
How does part I know that.
WILL POWER be I knows to which level we want to get based on the level of granularity of our missiles.
So the way to think about it is there's two separate things.
There's obviously zation.
So the things that we specify for this specific chart the parameters or the restrictions or rules the
columns and differences hierarchies and different things that we specify for this chart.
And then there is what power be-I does with the data.
So those are two separate concepts.
We are dictating what happens on the chart.
And then part B is taking that information and it is using that to understand how to aggregate the data
how to mesh the data together how to sum up or average out or whatever other aggregation you apply on
the data.
And so Paul VI knows that from what you're doing on the resolution.
So here for example we've told pre-buy that we want this visualization to be at the Year Quarter and
month level so the numeric variable here is unemployed right.
It doesn't affect the level of granularity it is the item that is being aggregated right.
So it's the you have two types of columns you have numeric columns which get aggregated so they get
summed up were averaged out and so on and you have categorical columns or you have time series columns
which actually specify at which level of detail those aggregations need to occur.
So the only other column which is not here that we have in this election if you just look through through
this will basically through this part of your party dashboard you'll see that the only other column
we have is period.
And currently it's said or drilled down to the monthly level.
So that's how far be-I knows that it needs to take the data and aggregate it to the monthly level and
we can easily manipulate that we can change these things so that the level of granularity or aggregation
is higher or lower.
So for instance we know that in this line here in this one line there's actually two lines.
In reality there's the female line and there's a male line.
Right now they are being aggregate together because nowhere here are we specifying that we want gender
as a separate element or a separate level of detail in our aggregation in our.
So let's go ahead and fix that.
Let's see how we can change it if we take gender and put it into legend.
So basically color right.
What will happen is we'll actually get two lines.
Now we have a green line which is for all men and the blackline which is old for all women.
And we can see that power be-I is now aggregating our data at not only a year quarter or month level
but also at gender level and therefore it is twice the number of points on our viz..
So we've become We've increased the level of granularity and or we've decreased the level of aggregation.
So now basically guys going through these rows and it's not only just looking at the period but it's
also looking at the gender column and it's using those two columns to aggregate.
It's still not taking into account age.
But already we have more information on our chart.
And also you can you can change this you can say that you don't want to aggregate by gender you want
to aggregate age for example and you can drag this in here and now you have one two three four five
six seven different groups.
And bear in mind in this case age is not just a numeric variable it's actually a category so we have
different buckets 16 to 19 20 24 25.
Therefore it's like we have bins for our age which have been preconfigured for us in our data set.
And the bottom line is that what we're actually doing is we're summing up our position or adding up
our unemployment values at the different age levels and therefore now we again once again increase the
level of granularity or decrease the level of aggregation.
The goal is to work hand-in-hand so granularity is the opposite of the level of granularity or level
of D-cells opposite of the level of aggregation so we're aggregating at a much lower level of aggregation
or we're aggregating at a higher level of granularity.
And that is a way how we can control the detail of our is very important to understand this and know
that you can control not only you just changing how the chart looks but you're actually changing what
party does in the background so when you've specified here period year quarter or month so we're saying
okay that's the level of detail I want to go in that column and then we also want to add the age column
Parbat goes to data and then adds it up or does that aggregation that you selected at that level.
And finally so let's just change this back to sort of the sort of age strange as back to gender.
And finally here what we can do is we can sort of we can change the aggregation that we're performing
where we play around with this little bit.
So here you can say average the election didn't change much the access did change because you're just
moving from some to average.
But let's say for instance we take sort of average we can take median here you'll see that it does change
or you can take a minimum or maximum.
And again the resolution changes because we're performing a different aggregation.
So there we go there's a very important topic in data mining in visualisations and hopefully this is
now a bit more clear and this is something that will practice throughout our work with RBI so with time
you will become very very comfortable with these concepts of aggregation granularity and level of detail.
And I hope you to this tural I look forward to seeing you next time.
And until then happy analyzing.